---
layout: post
title: Week One: Starting the Sophomore Semester (Not Slump)
---
###Last week
Last week was super hectic and passed by like a blur!

I spent half of my time catching up with friends, helping out for my college ministry, Access Christian Fellowship, and meeting freshmen at events. It was amazing how many freshmen populated the campus this year, and it reminded me of the beginnings of my freshman year spent going out to endless free goodie events and having to churn out the same information (name, year, major, location, etc...) whenever I met a new person. Now that that initial phase of college is over for me, I now get the privilege of welcoming freshmen on campus, and experiencing the embarrassment of forgetting someone's name 5 seconds after they say it... Some things never change.

The other half of my time was spent dissecting class syllabi, installing class software for OOP and Programming for Correctness, and preparing for the incoming recruiting season by updating my resume. Speaking about resumes, nothing is MORE enjoyable than spending an hour moving .1mm custom header lines on Microsoft Word in order to prevent a line from sticking out like a middle finger on a paper. I guess it might've been better to spend all that time learning LaTeX instead.

###This Week
This week, I'm hoping to adventure deeper into all my classes (especially 439 and OOP), finish my near-to-perfection resume, and complete the first 3 weeks of a linear algebra course for Programming for Correctness (3 weeks in 1... no biggie). I will also be preparing to teach East Coast Swing for my social dance group, Slosh, this coming Saturday at 9PM. 

###Downing's Class First Impression:

**Stunned**

The class went by so fast. Our 50 min lecture felt like 10 mins in a TedX talk. Downing presented his information clearly and captured my attention throughout the whole class time. I liked how interactive the class was, compared to the traditional passive lecture style that many professors adhere to, because I felt like a participant of the class, rather than a single-entity of classmates that had to be like sponges and absorb all the information given. I also like how most of the software needed for the class was already set-up through Docker, because I knew that as much of a learning experience setting up software is, it is very time-consuming.

###Obstacles
Relearning many parts of C will be killer. After working in mainly Java the whole summer, it will take some time to refresh my mind on how to print "Hello World" again with pointers and functions, as well as google my way through the correct command line inputs for compiling and debugging.
Also as a person who obsesses with Instagram-worthy captions and perfectly worded Facebook posts, this blog will be both a blessing and a curse. A blessing because it will be a new platform to express who I am as a person. A curse because I will spend countless hours hashing out a blog post worthy of a perfectionist's standards.
Most of all, the most challenging thing will be having to switch mindsets from working at a company to studying in college.

###Tip of the Week
There's this newsletter called [The Hustle](http://ambassadors.thehustle.co/?ref=76af0631a4) that gives current event information about news in tech, popular culture, and business. The content is curated so that news doesn't contain a cliffhanger and a link, but information is hashed out in shortened, understandable, and entertaining way. They try to make themselves personable to readers through their humor, sarcasm and sass and even have nicknames for specific subjects (5+ points if you get "Bezo's army").

Even if this newsletter may not be something you want to subscribe for, I highly recommend staying on top of news in some sort of form or fashion, not only because it's a good topic discusser, but also because you will have a greater scope of what is going on throughout the world, not just where you currently live.
